First pass in updating transaction docs (#74)
Bit-Quill/tinkerpop: docs/src/reference/implementations-tinkergraph.asciidoc

----

image:tinkerpop-character.png[width=100,float=left] TinkerGraph is a single machine, in-memory (with optional

> persistence), transactional graph engine that provides both OLTP and OLAP functionality. It is deployed with

Reviewer: Not sure about this change as base TinkerGraph is still non-transactional. I think the`Transactions` subsection is good enough.

Author: Yea I wasn't sure how this would interact here. Maybe I'll revert

> persistence), transactional graph engine that provides both OLTP and OLAP functionality. It is deployed with

Author: ```suggestion
persistence), non-transactional graph engine that provides both OLTP and OLAP functionality. It is deployed with
```

g.io("data/tinkerpop-crew.kryo").read().iterate()
g.V().properties()
----

=== Transactions

> As of 3.7.0, there is the option to use TinkerTransactionGraph, a transactional TinkerGraph class, to perform traversal
> transactions. This will eliminate the need to use the Neo4j plugin to enable TinkerGraph transactions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of 3.7.0, there is the option to use TinkerTransactionGraph, a transaction-enabled sibling of classic TinkerGraph.
TInkerTransactionGraph is built primarily as a reference implementation of gremlin transactions and for use with TinkerPop transaction tests. It is not intended to be used in production environments.
```

I don't think we should focus too much on Neo4J here, that history will not be relevant after a few releases. Also technically the Neo4J plugin doesn't enable TinkerGraph transactions, it gives a transaction powered alternative to TinkerGraph.

Author: I don't think sibling is the right word here. We are trying to avoid the notion that there are too graphs given this comment:

> 3. "In other cases better to use TinkerGraph." - as mentioned earlier, avoid statements that make it sound like there are two "TinkerGraphs". We have one TinkerGraph. If you want to use transactions you use one class and if you don't want transaction support you use a different class. it's still just TinkerGraph.

> The TinkerTransactionGraph has `read committed` isolation level, which is the same as the
> Neo4j plugin. It only imposes write-only locks, to reduce the impact of transactions on performance for reading. As well,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The TinkerTransactionGraph has `read committed` isolation level, which is the same as the
Neo4J Gremlin plugin. It only imposes write-only locks, to reduce the impact of transactions on performance for reading. As well,
```

> As of 3.7.0, there is the option to use TinkerTransactionGraph, a transactional TinkerGraph class, to perform traversal
> transactions. This will eliminate the need to use the Neo4j plugin to enable TinkerGraph transactions.
> 
> The TinkerTransactionGraph has `read committed` isolation level, which is the same as the
> Neo4j plugin. It only imposes write-only locks, to reduce the impact of transactions on performance for reading. As well,
> only `ThreadLocal` transaction is implemented, therefore for embedded TinkerTransactionGraph, all traversal sources spawn
> from the graph will operate within the same transaction scope.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of 3.7.0, `TinkerGraph` includes optional transaction support and thread-safety through the `TinkerTransactionGraph` class. The default configuration of TinkerGraph remains non-transactional.

`TinkerTransactionGraph` has `read committed` isolation level, which is the same as the
Neo4j gremlin plugin. It only imposes write-only locks, to reduce the impact of transactions on performance for reading. As well,
only `ThreadLocal` transaction is implemented, therefore for embedded TinkerTransactionGraph, all traversal sources spawn
from the graph will operate within the same transaction scope.

While transactions impose minimal impact for read-based workloads, users should expect significant performance degradation for write-intensive work relative to the non-transactional configuration.
```
